Add unsloth blogpost (#1726)
huggingface/blog: unsloth-trl.md

---
title: "Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/hf_unsloth/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: danielhanchen
  guest: true
---

# Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL

Pulling your hair out because LLM fine-tuning is taking forever? In this post, we introduce a lightweight tool developed by the community to make LLM fine-tuning go super fast!

Before diving into Unsloth, it may be helpful to read our [QLoRA blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), or be familiar with LLM fine-tuning using the 🤗 PEFT library.

## Unsloth - 2x faster, -40% memory usage, 0% accuracy degradation

> The [Unsloth library](https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth) is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from V100s all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Unsloth library](https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth) is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team ([Daniel](https://huggingface.co/danielhanchen) and [Michael](https://github.com/shimmyshimmer)) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from GTX 1070 all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.
```

Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make fine-tuning faster. Crucially, accuracy degradation is 0% with respect to normal QLoRA, because no approximations are made in the optimized code.

## Benchmarking

> | Model          | Dataset   | GPU  | PEFT + TRL Time | Unsloth Time | PEFT + TRL VRAM | Unsloth VRAM |
> |----------------|-----------|------|-----------------|--------------|-----------------|--------------|
> | Llama-2 7b     | OASST     | T4   | 2222            | 1355 (1.64x) | 10.4GB          | 8.4GB        |
> | Llama-2 7b     | Alpaca    | T4   | 1468            | 942 (1.56x)  | 7.1GB           | 6.4GB        |
> | Mistral 7b     | Slim Orca | A100 | 1571            | 842 (1.87x)  | 19.4GB          | 12.4GB       |
> | Code Llama 34b | Slim Orca | A100 | 1982            | 1042 (1.9x)  | 33.22GB         | 27.4GB       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Model           | Dataset   | GPU  | TRL + SDPA Time (s) | Unsloth (s)  | Speedup | TRL VRAM | Unsloth VRAM |
|-----------------|-----------|------|---------------------|--------------|---------|----------|--------------|
| Llama-2 7b      | OASST     | T4   | 2222                | 1355         | 1.64x   | 10.4GB   | 8.4GB        |
| Llama-2 7b      | Alpaca    | T4   | 1468                | 942          | 1.56x   | 7.1GB    | 6.4GB        |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | T4   | 13090               | 6996         | 1.87x   | 8.57GB   | 3.7GB        |
| Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | A100 | 1571                | 842          | 1.87x   | 19.4GB   | 12.4GB       |
| Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | A100 | 1982                | 1042         | 1.9x    | 33.2GB   | 27.4GB       |
```

Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is about 2x faster on the latest hardware. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)

## How do I use Unsloth?

> Just load your model with `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained`! On the latest Transformers branch, you can now load pre-quantized models in 4bit! For example, you can use `unsloth/llama-2-7b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/llama-2-13b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit` or `unsloth/codellama-34b-bnb-4bit` to load a pre-quantized 4bit model. Currently, Unsloth only supports Llama and Mistral type architectures. Make a Github issue if you want other model support!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Just load your model with `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained`! Currently, Unsloth supports Llama and Mistral type architectures (Yi, Deepseek, TinyLlama, Llamafied Qwen). Make a Github issue if you want others! Also, on the latest Transformers branch, you can now load pre-quantized 4bit models directly! This makes downloading models 4x faster, and reduces memory fragmentation by around 500MB, which allows you to fit larger batches! We have a few pre-quantized models for your convenience, including `unsloth/llama-2-7b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/llama-2-13b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit` and `unsloth/codellama-34b-bnb-4bit`.
```

> You will need to provide your intended maximum sequence length to `from_pretrained`. Otherwise the API is pretty much the same as transformers’ `from_pretrained`, except that `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` also returns the model tokenizer for convenience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to provide your intended maximum sequence length to `from_pretrained`. Unsloth internally performs RoPE Scaling, so larger maximum sequence lengths are automatically supported. Otherwise the API is pretty much the same as transformers’ `from_pretrained`, except that `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` also returns the model tokenizer for convenience.
```

```python
# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Currently only supports dropout = 0
    bias = "none",      # Currently only supports bias = "none"
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
)
```

Once adapters are attached, you can use the model directly within any class from the HF ecosystem, such as the `SFTTrainer` from TRL!

## Unsloth + TRL integration

To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model to the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!

```python
import torch

from trl import SFTTrainer
from transformers import TrainingArguments
from datasets import load_dataset

from unsloth import FastLanguageModel

max_seq_length = 2048 # Supports RoPE Scaling interally, so choose any!

> # Get LAION dataset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Get dataset
```

    bias = "none",    # Supports any, but = "none" is optimized
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
    random_state = 3407,
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
)

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model = model,
    train_dataset = dataset,
    dataset_text_field = "text",
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
    tokenizer = tokenizer,
    args = TrainingArguments(
      per_device_train_batch_size = 2,
      gradient_accumulation_steps = 4,
      warmup_steps = 10,
      max_steps = 60,
      fp16 = not torch.cuda.is_bf16_supported(),
      bf16 = torch.cuda.is_bf16_supported(),
      logging_steps = 1,
      output_dir = "outputs",
      optim = "adamw_8bit",
      seed = 3407,
  ),
)
trainer.train()
```

## Reproducible notebooks

We are sharing below fully reproducible notebooks for anyone that wants to try out Unsloth with SFTTrainer on a free-tier Google Colab instance.

Llama 7b Free Tesla T4 colab example [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/unsloth/notebooks/blob/main/Alpaca_%2B_Llama_7b_full_example.ipynb)

Mistral 7b Free Tesla T4 colab example [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/unsloth/notebooks/blob/main/Alpaca_%2B_Mistral_7b_full_example.ipynb)

> CodeLlama 34b A100 colab example [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/unsloth/notebooks/blob/main/Alpaca_%2B_Codellama_34b_full_example.ipynb)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CodeLlama 34b A100 colab example [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/unsloth/notebooks/blob/main/Alpaca_%2B_Codellama_34b_full_example.ipynb)

Zephyr DPO replication T4 colab example [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/unsloth/notebooks/blob/main/DPO_Zephyr_Unsloth_Example.ipynb)
```

## Unsloth - 2x faster, -40% memory usage, 0% accuracy degradation

The [Unsloth library](https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth) is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team ([Daniel](https://huggingface.co/danielhanchen) and [Michael](https://github.com/shimmyshimmer)) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from GTX 1070 all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.

Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make fine-tuning faster. Crucially, accuracy degradation is 0% with respect to normal QLoRA, because no approximations are made in the optimized code.

## Benchmarking

> | Model           | Dataset   | GPU  | TRL + SDPA Time (s) | Unsloth (s)  | Speedup | TRL VRAM | Unsloth VRAM |
> |-----------------|-----------|------|---------------------|--------------|---------|----------|--------------|
> | Llama-2 7b      | OASST     | T4   | 2222                | 1355         | 1.64x   | 10.4GB   | 8.4GB        |
> | Llama-2 7b      | Alpaca    | T4   | 1468                | 942          | 1.56x   | 7.1GB    | 6.4GB        |
> | Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | T4   | 13090               | 6996         | 1.87x   | 8.57GB   | 3.7GB        |
> | Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | A100 | 1571                | 842          | 1.87x   | 19.4GB   | 12.4GB       |
> | Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | A100 | 1982                | 1042         | 1.9x    | 33.2GB   | 27.4GB       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1 A100 40GB     | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Flash Attention 2 | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
|-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.01x                  | **1.94x**       | -22.7%            |
| Llama-2 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 0.96x                  | **1.87x**       | -39.3%            |
| Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.17x                  | **1.88x**       | -65.9%            |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.55x                  | **2.74x**       | -57.8%            |
| DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               | 1.24x                  | **1.88x**       | -11.6%            |

| Free Colab T4   | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Pytorch 2.1.1     | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
|-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Llama-2 7b      | OASST     | 1x               | 1.19x                  | **1.95x**       | -43.3%            |
| Mistral 7b      | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.07x                  | **1.56x**       | -13.7%            |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 2.06x                  | **3.87x**       | -73.8%            |
| DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               |                        | ****            | -                 |
```

@younesbelkada @vwxyzjn Maybe these tables make it more clearer and easier to look at? I separated it into A100 ad the Free Google Colab T4 instance. I'm still waiting for the DPO numbers, but will add them in once its done

Maybe this is less confusing and more clearer to the reader?

> Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is about 2x faster on the latest hardware. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is up to 2.7x faster on the latest hardware, and uses up to 74% less memory. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)
```

    model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
    dtype = None,
    load_in_4bit = True,
)

# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj",
                      "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj",],
    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Supports any, but = 0 is optimized
    bias = "none",    # Supports any, but = "none" is optimized
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
    random_state = 3407,
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
)

trainer = SFTTrainer(
    model = model,
    train_dataset = dataset,
    dataset_text_field = "text",
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
    tokenizer = tokenizer,
    args = TrainingArguments(
      per_device_train_batch_size = 2,
      gradient_accumulation_steps = 4,
      warmup_steps = 10,
      max_steps = 60,
      fp16 = not torch.cuda.is_bf16_supported(),
      bf16 = torch.cuda.is_bf16_supported(),
      logging_steps = 1,
      output_dir = "outputs",
      optim = "adamw_8bit",
      seed = 3407,
  ),
)

> trainer.train()

Reviewer 2: Very nice blog post @younesbelkada! Love the writing. Not necessarily needed, maybe we can add some numbers in the unsloth repo like the following? They could help demonstrate the effectiveness.

<img width="683" alt="image" src="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/assets/5555347/fb72223a-07c3-46d9-8543-b69a0d54d136">

Author: Thanks for the suggestion @vwxyzjn ! 
Currently we do have a similar table here: https://github.com/younesbelkada/blog/blob/add-unsloth/unsloth-trl.md#benchmarking let me know how we can enhance it !

Reviewer 2: That’s great!

---
title: "Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/hf_unsloth/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: danielhanchen
  guest: true
---

# Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL

Pulling your hair out because LLM fine-tuning is taking forever? In this post, we introduce a lightweight tool developed by the community to make LLM fine-tuning go super fast!

Before diving into Unsloth, it may be helpful to read our [QLoRA blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), or be familiar with LLM fine-tuning using the 🤗 PEFT library.

## Unsloth - 2x faster, -40% memory usage, 0% accuracy degradation

> The [Unsloth library](https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth) is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team ([Daniel](https://huggingface.co/danielhanchen) and [Michael](https://github.com/shimmyshimmer)) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from GTX 1070 all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Unsloth](https://github.com/unslothai/unsloth) is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team ([Daniel](https://huggingface.co/danielhanchen) and [Michael](https://github.com/shimmyshimmer)) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from GTX 1070 all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.
```

Minor simplification.

Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make fine-tuning faster. Crucially, accuracy degradation is 0% with respect to normal QLoRA, because no approximations are made in the optimized code.

## Benchmarking

| 1 A100 40GB     | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Flash Attention 2 | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
|-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.01x                  | **1.94x**       | -22.7%            |
| Llama-2 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 0.96x                  | **1.87x**       | -39.3%            |
| Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.17x                  | **1.88x**       | -65.9%            |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.55x                  | **2.74x**       | -57.8%            |
| DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               | 1.24x                  | **1.88x**       | -11.6%            |

> | Free Colab T4   | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Pytorch 2.1.1     | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |

Reviewer 3: Very nice to have the sdpa figures now too! Are you using `compile` too? (just curious)

Reviewer: Oh nah no torch.compile - just native benchmarking with SDPA :)

I think I tried compile a while back, it is faster, but VRAM usage explodes sadly - I think I was talking about VRAM issues with the GPT Fast dev

> | 1 A100 40GB     | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Flash Attention 2 | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
> |-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
> | Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.01x                  | **1.94x**       | -22.7%            |
> | Llama-2 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 0.96x                  | **1.87x**       | -39.3%            |
> | Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.17x                  | **1.88x**       | -65.9%            |
> | Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.55x                  | **2.74x**       | -57.8%            |
> | DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               | 1.24x                  | **1.88x**       | -11.6%            |
> 
> | Free Colab T4   | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Pytorch 2.1.1     | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
> |-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
> | Llama-2 7b      | OASST     | 1x               | 1.19x                  | **1.95x**       | -43.3%            |
> | Mistral 7b      | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.07x                  | **1.56x**       | -13.7%            |
> | Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 2.06x                  | **3.87x**       | -73.8%            |
> | DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               |                        | ****            | -                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1 A100 40GB     | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Flash Attention 2 | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
|-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Code Llama 34b  | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.01x                  | **1.94x**       | -22.7%            |
| Llama-2 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 0.96x                  | **1.87x**       | -39.3%            |
| Mistral 7b      | Slim Orca | 1x               | 1.17x                  | **1.88x**       | -65.9%            |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.55x                  | **2.74x**       | -57.8%            |
| DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               | 1.24x                  | **1.88x**       | -11.6%            |

| Free Colab T4   | Dataset   | 🤗 Hugging Face | 🤗 + Pytorch 2.1.1     | 🦥 Unsloth     | 🦥 VRAM reduction |
|-----------------|-----------|------------------|------------------------|-----------------|-------------------|
| Llama-2 7b      | OASST     | 1x               | 1.19x                  | **1.95x**       | -43.3%            |
| Mistral 7b      | Alpaca    | 1x               | 1.07x                  | **1.56x**       | -13.7%            |
| Tiny Llama 1.1b | Alpaca    | 1x               | 2.06x                  | **3.87x**       | -73.8%            |
| DPO with Zephyr | Ultra Chat| 1x               | 1.09x                  | **1.55x**       | -18.6%            |
```

> Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is up to 2.7x faster on the latest hardware, and uses up to 74% less memory. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers version [(4.36)](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/releases/tag/v4.36.0), which has SDPA natively integrated if you have Pytorch 2.1.1, Unsloth is up to 2.7x faster and uses up to 74% less memory. We also tested Unsloth on a free Google Colab instance (low RAM, 1 T4 GPU, Pytorch 2.1.0 CUDA 12.1). All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)
```

## How do I use Unsloth?

> Just load your model with `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained`! Currently, Unsloth supports Llama and Mistral type architectures (Yi, Deepseek, TinyLlama, Llamafied Qwen). Make a Github issue if you want others! Also, on the latest Transformers branch, you can now load pre-quantized 4bit models directly! This makes downloading models 4x faster, and reduces memory fragmentation by around 500MB, which allows you to fit larger batches! We have a few pre-quantized models for your convenience, including `unsloth/llama-2-7b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/llama-2-13b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit` and `unsloth/codellama-34b-bnb-4bit`.

Author: Correct!

You will need to provide your intended maximum sequence length to `from_pretrained`. Unsloth internally performs RoPE Scaling, so larger maximum sequence lengths are automatically supported. Otherwise the API is pretty much the same as transformers’ `from_pretrained`, except that `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` also returns the model tokenizer for convenience.

```python
from unsloth import FastLanguageModel

> # Load Llama model
> model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(
>     model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
>     max_seq_length = 2048, # Supports RoPE Scaling internally, so choose any!
>     load_in_4bit = True,
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(
    model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
    max_seq_length = 2048, # Supports RoPE Scaling internally, so choose any!
    load_in_4bit = True,
)
```

```

Once the model has been loaded, use `FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model` to attach adapters in order to perform QLoRA fine-tuning.

```python
# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    lora_alpha = 16,

>     lora_dropout = 0, # Currently only supports dropout = 0
>     bias = "none",      # Currently only supports bias = "none"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    lora_dropout = 0, # Supports any, but = 0 is optimized
    bias = "none",    # Supports any, but = "none" is optimized
```

## Unsloth + TRL integration

To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model to the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!

```python
import torch

from trl import SFTTrainer
from transformers import TrainingArguments
from datasets import load_dataset

from unsloth import FastLanguageModel

max_seq_length = 2048 # Supports RoPE Scaling interally, so choose any!
# Get dataset
dataset = load_dataset("imdb", split="train")

# Load Llama model
model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(
    model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
    max_seq_length = max_seq_length,
    dtype = None,
    load_in_4bit = True,
)

# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj",
                      "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj",],
    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Supports any, but = 0 is optimized

>     bias = "none",    # Supports any, but = "none" is optimized

Reviewer 3: The comments above are contradictory (they say the only supported values are `0` and `"none"`)

Author: ah yeah :D let me remove the comments then

Reviewer 3: Maybe I'm confused, but this is the code block in lines 60-69:

```
# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Currently only supports dropout = 0
    bias = "none",      # Currently only supports bias = "none"
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
)
```

The comment for `lora_dropout` says it only supports 0, but here (line 106) it says it supports any but 0 is optimized.

Author: Ahh yes Makes sense, let's maybe just remove the comments and avoid any confusion, and let users refer to the first code block as you suggested
```suggestion
    lora_dropout = 0, 
    bias = "none",
```

Reviewer: @pcuenca OOHH fair - I forgot there are 2 code snippets - I'll update the other one

---
title: "Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/hf_unsloth/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: danielhanchen
  guest: true
---

# Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL

Pulling your hair out because LLM fine-tuning is taking forever? In this post, we introduce a lightweight tool developed by the community to make LLM fine-tuning go super fast!

Before diving into Unsloth, it may be helpful to read our [QLoRA blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), or be familiar with LLM fine-tuning using the 🤗 PEFT library.

## Unsloth - 2x faster, -40% memory usage, 0% accuracy degradation

> The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from V100s all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer 4: >The Unsloth library

> (Daniel and Michael)

We could add a links here, especially for the first one?

Author: Done

```python
from unsloth import FastLanguageModel

# Load Llama model
model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(
    model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
    max_seq_length = 2048, # Supports RoPE Scaling internally, so choose any!
    load_in_4bit = True,
)
```

Once the model has been loaded, use `FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model` to attach adapters in order to perform QLoRA fine-tuning.

```python
# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Currently only supports dropout = 0
    bias = "none",      # Currently only supports bias = "none"
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
)
```

Once adapters are attached, you can use the model directly within any class from the HF ecosystem, such as the `SFTTrainer` from TRL!

## Unsloth + TRL integration

> To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model to the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!

Reviewer 4: What do you think about adding a small example code snippet here? Maybe the SFTTrainer? if someone doesn't know `trl` well it might be helpful as a refresher/reference.

Author: Done!

---
title: "Faster fine-tuning using TRL & Unsloth"
thumbnail: /blog/assets/hf_unsloth/thumbnail.png
authors:
- user: danielhanchen
  guest: true
---

> # Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with unsloth and 🤗 TRL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Make LLM Fine-tuning 2x faster with Unsloth and 🤗 TRL
```

I'd use the same title in the metadata fields and in `_blog.yml` too.

How about something like "Faster LLM Fine-tuning with Unsloth and TRL"?

Reviewer: "Faster LLM Fine-tuning with Unsloth and TRL" sounds great! :) I just thought 2x was more enticing :)

Reviewer 3: You are right, "2x" is nice! :)

> Pulling your hair out because LLM finetuning is taking forever? In this blogpost, we introduce a lightweight tool developed by the community to make LLM finetuning go super fast!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pulling your hair out because LLM fine-tuning is taking forever? In this post, we introduce a lightweight tool developed by the community to make LLM fine-tuning go super fast!
```

Nice entry! We have a mix of "fine-tune" and "finetune" across the post, I'd suggest we settle on "fine-tune" for consistency.

Reviewer: Oh lol that would be my habit :) I'm not even sure if finetune is a real world in the dictionary lol

> Before diving into this blogpost, we suggest you to first have a look at our QLoRA blogpost, and be familiar with LLM fine-tuning using the 🤗 PEFT library.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before diving into Unsloth, it may be helpful to read our [QLoRA blog post](https://huggingface.co/blog/4bit-transformers-bitsandbytes), or be familiar with LLM fine-tuning using the 🤗 PEFT library.
```

(Assuming that's the post you are referring to) :)

## Unsloth - 2x faster, -40% memory usage, 0% accuracy degradation

> The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs from V100s all the way to H100s and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At this time of writing, Unsloth supports Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs –from V100s all the way up to H100s–, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At the time of writing, Unsloth supports the Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.
```

> The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most of NVIDIA GPUs from V100s all the way to H100s, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At this time of writing, Unsloth supports Llama (Codellama, Yi etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer 5: For Daniel and Michael, maybe add linkedin or github links

Reviewer: My bro doesn't really have a social media presence :)
But can put my Github or Linkedin! Either is fine!
https://www.linkedin.com/in/danielhanchen/
https://github.com/danielhanchen

Reviewer 6: or HF link:)

Reviewer: I'll use my HF profile! :)

> The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most of NVIDIA GPUs from V100s all the way to H100s, and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At this time of writing, Unsloth supports Llama (Codellama, Yi etc) and Mistral architectures.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The Unsloth library is a lightweight library for faster LLM fine-tuning which is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem (Hub, transformers, PEFT, TRL). The library is actively developed by the Unsloth team (Daniel and Michael) and the open source community. The library supports most NVIDIA GPUs from V100s all the way to H100s and can be used with the entire trainer suite from the TRL library (SFTTrainer, DPOTrainer, PPOTrainer). At this time of writing, Unsloth supports Llama (CodeLlama, Yi, etc) and Mistral architectures.
```

> Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code of models with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make finetuning faster. Also, there are no approximations during finetuning, so the accuracy degradation is 0%.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make fine-tuning faster. Crucially, accuracy degradation is 0% with respect to normal QLoRA, because no approximations are made in the optimized code.
```

(I'm assuming degradation refers to QLoRA fine-tuning)

Reviewer: Oh yep correct - its against QLoRA

> Unsloth works by over-writing some parts of the modeling code of models with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps, and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth is able to both reduce memory usage, and make finetuning faster. Also, there are no approximations during finetuning, so the accuracy degradation is 0%.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Unsloth works by overwriting some parts of the modeling code of models with optimized operations. By manually deriving backpropagation steps and rewriting all Pytorch modules into Triton kernels, Unsloth can both reduce memory usage and make finetuning faster. Also, there are no approximations during finetuning, so the accuracy degradation is 0%.
```

## Benchmarking

| Model          | Dataset   | GPU  | PEFT + TRL Time | Unsloth Time | PEFT + TRL VRAM | Unsloth VRAM |
|----------------|-----------|------|-----------------|--------------|-----------------|--------------|
| Llama-2 7b     | OASST     | T4   | 2222            | 1355 (1.64x) | 10.4GB          | 8.4GB        |
| Llama-2 7b     | Alpaca    | T4   | 1468            | 942 (1.56x)  | 7.1GB           | 6.4GB        |
| Mistral 7b     | Slim Orca | A100 | 1571            | 842 (1.87x)  | 19.4GB          | 12.4GB       |

> | Code Llama 34b | Slim Orca | A100 | 1982            | 1042 (1.9x)  | 33.22GB         | 27.4GB       |

Reviewer 3: I find the time multipliers in the "Unsloth Time" column a bit confusing. I propose one of these alternatives:
- Put the "Unsloth Time" column first, and the `1.xx` multipliers in the PEFT Time column.
- Use time improvements instead (39% faster, and so on).

Reviewer: Hmm fair point - Maybe the 1st idea sounds cool! Interestingly when I was talking to my mum, she always gets confused on percentages - is it 100% faster for 2x or 50% faster for 2x etc? So I opted for 2x :)

Reviewer 3: Yes, I do agree that "2x faster" is a simple and nice message to communicate :)

> Unsloth was benchmarked on over 59 runs using 4 datasets and on Tesla T4 and A100 instances via Google Colab. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is around 2x faster. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Unsloth was benchmarked across 59 runs using 4 datasets on Tesla T4 and A100 Google Colab instances. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is about 2x faster on the latest hardware. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)
```

The numbers in the website appear to be a bit better than the table above?

Reviewer: Oh so the website's numbers are benchmarking Transformers 4.35. 4.36 was just released a few days after my benchmarking I think, and that includes default support for scaled dot product attention.

So the 2nd column on the website is 4.36, whilst the 1st column is 4.35. All I did was to standardize the 2nd column, so the numbers seem a bit lower.

> Unsloth was benchmarked on over 59 runs using 4 datasets, and on Tesla T4 and A100 instances via Google Colab. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is around 2x faster. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Unsloth was benchmarked on over 59 runs using 4 datasets and on Tesla T4 and A100 instances via Google Colab. QLoRA was applied to all linear layers (attention and MLP) with a rank of 16, and gradient checkpointing was on. By testing against the latest Transformers branch, which now has SDPA natively integrated, Unsloth is around 2x faster. All 59 notebooks are provided for full reproducibility, and more details are in Unsloth’s benchmarking details [here](https://unsloth.ai/blog/mistral-benchmark)
```

## How do I use Unsloth?

> Just load your model with `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained`! On the latest Transformers branch, you can now load pre-quantized models in 4bit! For example, you can use `unsloth/llama-2-7b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/llama-2-13b-bnb-4bit`, `unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit` or `unsloth/codellama-34b-bnb-4bit` to load a pre-quantized 4bit model. Currently, Unsloth only supports Llama and Mistral type architectures. Make a Github issue if you want other model support!

Reviewer 3: I have 2 questions:
- Are these pretrained models different than the versions I'd get with `transformers.from_pretrained` when loading in 4-bit mode? Do they already have optimizations applied?
- Does `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` require a 4-bit version?

Reviewer: - So with transformers 4.37, one can directly load a quantized model in 4bits from Huggingface Hub without first donwloading a 16bit model then quantizing it. For eg Llama 7b you will have to download around 15GB of 16bit weights. With pre-quantized weights, you only need to donwload 4ish GB of 4bit weights, saving time of loading.
- Another benefit is memory fragmentation is reduced by around 500MB or so (larger models 1GB sometimes), which allows you to finetune models before which was just about to OOM.
- Oh no! It can do 4bit, 16bit, 32bit - anything - it's the same as `AutoModelForCausalLM.from_pretrained` :) Should I make a it clearer?

Reviewer 3: I'd maybe just say something along the lines of "for example, to load in 4-bit mode you could do ...". On the first topic, maybe mention that the pre-converted weights exist for convenience, to minimize download time and memory fragmentation as you explained :) But feel free to shorten or ignore, of course, if it becomes unnecessarily long or convoluted; I was just sharing my thoughts as I read it in case they're useful :)

> You will need to provide your intended maximum sequence length to `from_pretrained`. Otherwise the API is pretty much similar to Transformers’ `from_pretrained`, except that `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` also returns the model tokenizer.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You will need to provide your intended maximum sequence length to `from_pretrained`. Otherwise the API is pretty much the same as transformers’ `from_pretrained`, except that `FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained` also returns the model tokenizer for convenience.
```

```python
from unsloth import FastLanguageModel

# Load Llama model
model, tokenizer = FastLanguageModel.from_pretrained(
    model_name = "unsloth/mistral-7b-bnb-4bit", # Supports Llama, Mistral - replace this!
    max_seq_length = 2048, # Supports RoPE Scaling internally, so choose any!
    load_in_4bit = True,
)
```

Once the model has been loaded, use `FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model` to attach adapters in order to perform QLoRA fine-tuning.

```python
# Do model patching and add fast LoRA weights
model = FastLanguageModel.get_peft_model(
    model,
    r = 16,

>     target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj",],

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    target_modules = ["q_proj", "k_proj", "v_proj", "o_proj", "gate_proj", "up_proj", "down_proj"],
```

    lora_alpha = 16,
    lora_dropout = 0, # Currently only supports dropout = 0
    bias = "none",      # Currently only supports bias = "none"
    use_gradient_checkpointing = True,
)
```

> Once adapters are attached, you can use the model directly within any class from the HF ecosystem, such as the SFTTrainer from TRL!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Once adapters are attached, you can use the model directly within any class from the HF ecosystem, such as the `SFTTrainer` from TRL!
```

## Unsloth + TRL integration

> To use Unsloth with the 🤗 TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into SFTTrainer or DPOTrainer! The trained model is fully compatible with the 🤗 ecosystem so you can push the final model on the Hub and use 🤗 Transformers for inference out of the box!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model on the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!
```

> To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model on the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To use Unsloth with the TRL library, simply pass the Unsloth model into `SFTTrainer` or `DPOTrainer`! The trained model is fully compatible with the Hugging Face ecosystem, so you can push the final model to the Hub and use transformers for inference out of the box!
```

## Reproducible notebooks

We are sharing below fully reproducible notebooks for anyone that wants to try out Unsloth with SFTTrainer on a free-tier Google Colab instance.

Llama 7b Free Tesla T4 colab example: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1lBzz5KeZJKXjvivbYvmGarix9Ao6Wxe5?usp=sharing

Mistral 7b Free Tesla T4 colab example: 
https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1Dyauq4kTZoLewQ1cApceUQVNcnnNTzg_?usp=sharing

> Codellama 34b A100 colab example:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
CodeLlama 34b A100 colab example:
```
